---
layout: archive
permalink: /research/
title: Research
---

## Distributed Bio-computing

![](/images/theme_distributed.svg)

A coordinated distributed network involving multiple computers can be used to
take on large computational tasks. Likewise, in the realm of genetic circuits,
researchers have proposed multicellular strategies to overcome the limitations
of scaling up within single cells. However, existing instances of distributed
biological circuits have predominantly relied on a limited repertoire of
molecular signals borrowed from nature as external messages for intercellular
communication. In this research theme, we aim to develop synthetic orthogonal
signals to enable cell-to-cell communication within bacterial communities, and
the accompanying computational primitives. These engineered signals will serve
as the foundation for scaling up multicellular circuits for complex
computational tasks.


## Genetic Circuit Design

![](/images/theme_circuits.svg)

As synthetic genetic circuits grow in size, they become increasingly
challenging for individual cells to maintain and run. The cellular resources
required for these circuits impose a burden on the cell, leading to reduced
long-term stability, and consequent susceptibility to negative selection that
results in their loss. In contrast, natural systems manage to accommodate
significantly larger genetic programs by employing intricate regulatory
mechanisms that effectively regulate the costs associated with gene expression.
In this research theme, our objective is to establish both experimental and
theoretical methodologies for quantifying the expenses/ burden associated with
maintaining and running synthetic genetic circuits within cells. By leveraging
these methodologies, we aim to identify the most efficient design architectures
that enable the implementation of a genetic circuit with a specific function
while minimizing costs.


## Biological Systems Modeling and Simulation

![](/images/theme_models.svg)

This theme of our research focuses on the modeling and simulation of
biological systems across various levels of biological organization. We utilize
experimental data to construct realistic models using the chemical reaction
networks (CRN) formalism, allowing us to simulate these systems using both
deterministic and stochastic methods. Starting from molecular-level modeling,
we aim to develop computer-aided-design (CAD) tools for the automated design of
biological circuits. These circuits will be designed to serve various
applications, including information processing circuits within individual
bacteria or in bacterial consortia of multiple cells. By integrating
experimental data, mathematical modeling, and computational tools, our goal is
to advance the field of synthetic biology and enable the efficient design of
biological circuits tailored to specific requirements.
